---
sidebar_position: 7
title: Service Providers Management
sidebar_label: Service Providers
---

# Service Providers

## Overview

Service Providers allows you to manage the third-party providers that will be made available to customers through Service Packages and Subscriptions. A Service Provider is a set of configuration options that define the properties and capabilities of the service provider.

The StreamWise platform allows you to configure different service providers, allowing you to support the provision of multiple types of video, streaming and web meeting services with vendor independence.

## Service Types {#service-types}

A third-party service provider will always be associated with a service type. The service type defines the type of service that the service provider provides. For example, _BigBlueButton_ is a service provider that offers web meeting services, while _Cloudflare Stream_ is a service provider that offers video streaming services.

The StreamWise platform supports the following types of services:

| Service Type            | Value  | Description                             |
|-------------------------|--------|-----------------------------------------|
| [Web Meeting](#meet)    | `meet` | Used for web meeting service providers. |

### Web Meeting {#meet}

The Web Meeting service type is used for service providers that offer web meeting services. Service providers that offer web meeting services can be used to create meeting rooms, manage users, manage recordings, etc.

Web meeting service providers can be identified by the value `meet` in the `service_type` attribute of the `ServiceProvider` object.

* Key: `service_type`
* Value: `meet`

:::note
At moment, the only supported `service_type` is `meet`.

:::

## Provider Types {#provider-types}

A third-party service provider will always be associated with one type of provider. The provider type specifies which provider is being used to provide the service. The platform supports specific providers for each type of service with their own settings and properties. Who will define which properties and settings will be available for each type of provider will be the **Provider Type**.

The Provider Types currently supported by the platform are:

| Provider Type | Value       | Details                                                                                       |
|---------------|-------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| BigBlueButton | `bbb`       | Access [BigBlueButton Provider](/docs/service-providers/bigbluebutton) reference for details. |
| Scalelite     | `scalelite` | Access [Scalelite Provider](/docs/service-providers/scalelite) reference for details.         |

## Service Provider Properties

A Service Provider is a resource that has different properties that can be configured. The properties are used to define the behavior of the service provider. In this section, we will cover the properties that are available for a service provider.

### Attributes

Below is a list of the properties that are available for a service provider.

| Attribute     | Type    | Description                                                                  |
|---------------|---------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| id            | Integer | The unique identifier of the service provider.                               |
| uuid          | String  | The Universally Unique Identifier of the service provider.                   |
| ulid          | String  | The universally unique lexicographically identifier of the service provider. |
| provider_name | String  | The name of the service provider.                                            |
| active        | Boolean | The status of the service provider.                                          |
| provider_type | Enum    | The type of provider that is being used to provide the service.              |
| service_type  | Enum    | The type of service that the service provider provides.                      |
| properties    | Array   | The properties of the service provider.                                      |
| settings      | Array   | The settings of the service provider.                                        |
| metadata      | Array   | The metadata of the service provider.                                        |

#### id

The `id` is the unique identifier of the service provider. The `id` is a hashed key that is automatically generated by the platform.

#### uuid

The `uuid` is the Universally Unique Identifier of the service provider. The `uuid` is generated by the platform and is unique across all service providers.

#### ulid

The ULID is a universally unique lexically sortable identifier. The ULID is generated by the platform and cannot be changed. The ULID provide a canonically encoded 26 character string that can be used to sort the room in chronological order (due to the time component of the ULID) or to generate time-based shard keys (due to the randomness of the ULID).

#### provider_name

The `provider_name` is a human-readable name of the service provider. The `provider_name` is used to easily identify the service provider in the platform and can be changed at any time.

#### active

The `active` is a boolean value that indicates whether the service provider is active or not. The `active` attribute can be used to disable a service provider without deleting it. Provedores de servico que estejam desabilitados nao estarao disponiveis para utilizacao mesmo que já associados a pacotes ou assinaturas. 

:::caution

If the service provider is set as the default provider for any subscription, you can't disable it. If you try to disable a service provider that is set as the default provider for any subscription, the platform will return an error.

:::

#### provider_type

The `provider_type` is the type of provider that is being used to provide the service. The provider type specifies which provider is being used to provide the service.

:::note

Please refer to the [Provider Types](#provider-types) section for more information.

:::

#### service_type

The `service_type` is the type of service that the service provider provides. The service type specifies which service the service provider provides.

:::note

Please refer to the [Service Types](#service-types) section for more information.

:::

### Properties

The `properties` is a key-value pairs that store additional structured data used internally to configure additional information attached to a service provider. The properties are used to store the configuration of the service provider like credentials, hostnames, etc.

The properties that will be set for a service provider will depend on the provider type. Each provider type has its own required properties.

:::tip Sensitive Data

Any sensitive properties data, such as credentials, are **encrypted before being stored** in the database. The encryption is made using the most advanced encryption algorithms available and all stored data only can be decrypted by the platform.

:::

:::info

Please refer to the [Provider Types](#provider-types) section for more information about the required properties for each provider type.

:::

### Settings

The `settings` is a key-value pairs that store additional structured data used internally to configure additional information attached to a service provider. The settings are used to define the behavior of the service provider.

### Metadata

The `metadata` is a set of key-value pairs that can attached to a service provider. This can be useful for storing additional information or third-party data, such as identification from a CRM system or billing system.

The metadata is stored as a JSON object. The keys are strings and the values can be strings, numbers, booleans, or null.

| Key                               | Type    | Value | Description            |
|-----------------------------------|---------|-------|------------------------|
| `metadata['external_billing_id']` | integer | `123` | Third-party billing id |
| `metadata['external_crm_id']`     | integer | `456` | Third-party CRM id     |

:::note

This is an example of how to set the `metadata` attribute. The `metadata` attribute can be set to any key-value pair.

:::

## Service Providers Management

The StreamWise platform provides a RESTful API to manage service providers. The API allows you to create, list, update, and delete service providers. An administrator with the proper permissions can manage the service providers through the API.

:::info

Please refer to the [API Reference](/docs/api) section for more information about the Service Providers API.

:::

### Create a Service Provider

Service Providers can be created using the `POST /service-providers` API endpoint. The endpoint will create a new service provider with the specified attributes.

Depending on the provider type, the service provider will have different attributes. Please refer to the [Provider Types](#provider-types) section for more information about the required attributes for each provider type.

### List Service Providers

Service Providers can be listed using the `GET /service-providers` API endpoint. The endpoint will return a list of service providers and their attributes.

### Update a Service Provider

Service Providers can be updated using the `PATCH /service-providers/{id}` API endpoint. The endpoint will update the service provider with the new attributes.

### Delete a Service Provider

Service Providers can be deleted using the `DELETE /service-providers/{id}` API endpoint. The endpoint will delete the service provider and all associated data.

:::caution

A Service Provider cannot be deleted if it is associated with any package or subscription. If you try to delete a service provider that is associated with a package or subscription, the platform will return an error.

:::